# Breast-Cancer-Classification
### Comparing K-means and GMM Clustering Algorithms to Identify Benign and Malignant Cases in Breast Cancer Data

Our group decided to focus our analysis on a dataset called “Breast Cancer Wisconsin (Original)”. This dataset consists of data obtained from the patients of Dr. William H. Wolberg at the University of Wisconsin Hospitals. The instances of data are split into groups that were observed over the span of two years (from 1989-1991). We chose this dataset because it contained unsupervised data which made it perfect for the learning algorithms we wanted to implement and also because the implications of our analysis would have very real applications to the medicinal world. Our analysis consists of conducting the K-means and Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) algorithms on this dataset to predict which attributes observed are most indicative of a benign vs a malignant tumor. The attributes we considered were the following: Clump Thickness (1-10), Uniformity of Cell Size (1-10), Uniformity of Cell Shape (1-10), Marginal Adhesion (1-10), Single Epithelial Cell Size (1-10), Bare Nuclei (1-10), Bland Chromatin (1-10), Normal Nucleoli (1-10), and Mitosis (1-10). We also aim to compare the two algorithms to determine which one is a better fit for this data.For both algorithms we chose to only assign two cluster centers since our analysis is limited to classifying whether a tumor is benign or malignant. Classifying whether a tumor is benign or malignant just by observing its physical properties can be very applicable to the field of breast cancer research. For example, from our analysis if a certain attribute is more indicative of the tumor being malignant, it could serve as an immediate admonitory signal which could help doctors prioritize care as needed.

We have coded the K-means and PCA essentially from scratch (without the use of traditional sci-kit learn/scipy libraries, only math!).
